= Preferences - WindowBuilder

image:images/preferences_windowbuilder.png[image]

Here is the list of core preference pages:

* *link:preferences_code_parsing.html[Code Parsing]*

Preferences maybe link:preferences_export.html[exported and imported]
using the Eclipse Preference Export/Import facility.

== General Comments

The positions of the *link:../userinterface/palette.html[Palette]* and
*link:../userinterface/structure_view.html[Structure View]* may be
configured via drag and drop or by right-clicking on the header and
selecting the *Dock On* command. The
*link:../userinterface/palette.html[Palette]* may be docked to either
the left or right side of the
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]*.

++++
<p>
  <img src="images/flyout_palette1.png">
  <img src="../userinterface/images/palette_dock_on.gif" align="top">
</p>
++++

The *link:../userinterface/structure_view.html[Structure View]* may be
docked to the top, bottom, left or right of the
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]*.

++++
<p>
  <img src="images/dock_left.png">
  <img src="images/dock_top.png" align="top">
  <img src="../userinterface/images/structure_view_dock_on.gif" align="top">
</p>
++++

The *link:../userinterface/palette.html[Palette]* and
*link:../userinterface/structure_view.html[Structure View]* are also
available as standalone views. Use the *Window > Show View > Other...*
command and open the *WindowBuilder* category or right-click on the
header and select the *Extract as view* command. Closing the view will
make it reappear as embedded view within the editor.

++++
<p>
  <img src="images/windowbuilder_views.png">
  <img src="images/palette_view.png" align="top">
  <img src="images/structure_view.png" align="top">
  <img src="../userinterface/images/palette_extract_as_view.gif" align="top">
  <img src="../userinterface/images/structure_extract_as_view.gif" align="top">
</p>
++++

== Editor Layout

This preference controls the position of the
*link:../userinterface/source_view.html[Source View]* relative to the
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]*. By default, they
are "on separate notebook tabs" labeled *Source* and *Design* (you can
select which page is first). Additional options are provided to show the
*link:../userinterface/source_view.html[Source View]* and
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]* side by side or
one above the other.

image:../userinterface/images/source_view_right.png[image,width=902,height=305]

image:../userinterface/images/source_view_bottom.png[image,width=545,height=456] 
image:../userinterface/images/source_view.png[image,width=442,height=456]

== Sync Delay (ms)

When the *link:../userinterface/source_view.html[Source View]* and
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]* are both visible,
this preference determines the delay used to synchronize the two panes.
If the user types in the *link:../userinterface/source_view.html[Source
View]*, the source will be re-parsed and the
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]* will be updated
after a period specified by the sync delay. Use "-1" to synchronize only
on save.

== Associate WindowBuilder editor with automatically recognized Java GUI files

This preference determines whether *WindowBuilder Pro* will attempt to
automatically recognize GUI files and associate the *WindowBuilder*
editor with them.

== Maximize editor on "Design" page activation

This preference determines whether the *WindowBuilder* editor will be
automatically maximized when switching to the
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]*.

== Format source code (and reparse) on editor save

This preference determines whether the generated source code will be
formatted using your Eclipse code formatting preferences whenever the
*WindowBuilder* editor is saved.

== Go to component definition in source on selection

This preference controls whether the source definition of a component is
highlighted any time a component is selected in the
*link:../userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]*.

== Automatically add to palette when using Choose Component

This preference controls the whether beans selected using the *Choose
Component* command are automatically added to the *Custom Controls*
palette.

== Accept drop non-visual beans to design canvas

This preference controls whether non-visual beans may be dropped on the
design canvas.

== Show debug information on console

This preference controls whether debugging info is written to the Java
console window.

== Show warning for incompatible Eclipse/WindowBuilder versions

This preference controls whether the tool shows a version warning when
there is a mismatch between the version of the tool you are using and
the version of Eclipse you are using. In general, a version of the tool
built for Eclipse 3.4 will not work with Eclipse 3.7 and vice versa. In
some situations, a newer milestone or integration build will work with
the latest build, so this preference gives you the ability to suppress
the unnecessary and distracting warning in those cases. Be warned,
however, that using the tool  in a mismatched Eclipse version may result
in unpredictable behavior.