= Tips and Tricks

Here is a collection of useful commands to make you even more
productive.

== Directly editing widget text in the Design View

To quickly edit the text property a component, select the component in
the **link:userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]**, and hit the
*Space* key to reveal an edit box in which you can set the component's
text property.

image:userinterface/images/direct_edit.png[image]

== Adding multiple widgets of the same type

Multiple widgets of the same type may be added to the
*link:userinterface/design_view.html[Design View]* by holding down the
*Ctrl* key when selecting the widget in the
*link:userinterface/palette.html[Palette]*.

== Editing properties of multiple widgets at the same time

When multiple controls are selected, all of their shared properties are
listed in the *link:userinterface/property_pane.html[Property Pane]*. If
not all the selected controls have the same value for a property, the
property editor in the *link:userinterface/property_pane.html[Property
Pane]* will be blank.

== Configuring the Palette

The *link:userinterface/palette_manager.html[Palette Manager]* dialog
allows the toolkit-specific palette to be fully configured. Categories,
and entries may be added, edited, rearranged and removed.

== Editing advanced widget properties

By default, the *link:userinterface/property_pane.html[Property Pane]*
displays normal properties. To edit expert properties (shown in
_italics_) click the *Show advanced properties*
image:userinterface/images/filter_advanced_properties.gif[image,width=16,height=16]
button to reveal them.

== Reverting a widget property to its default value

To quickly revert a property to its default value, select the property
in the *link:userinterface/property_pane.html[Property Pane]* and hit
the *Delete* key or click *Restore default value*
image:userinterface/images/properties_default.gif[image,width=16,height=16]
button.

== Hiding code from the parser

Code can be hidden from the parser by enclosing it in
link:preferences/preferences_code_parsing.html[code hiding tags]. This
can be useful, if you need to add some complex dynamic code to your
layout that can't be parsed by the tool**.**