= Design View

The *Design View* is your virtual sketchpad. You can add or remove
components, edit layout properties, direct edit labels, and see what
your overall design looks like as it evolves.

image:images/design_view.png[image,width=558,height=446]

Select a component in the *Design View* to make it appear in the
*xref:property_pane.adoc[Property Pane]*, where you can edit its
properties. This will also activate selection handles for the component.
Selection handles allow you change layout properties of the selected
control and, for some layout managers, also layout properties of sibling
controls. All properties that can be changed in the *Design View* can be
also changed in the *xref:property_pane.adoc[Property Pane]*. Depending
on the xref:../layoutmanagers/index.adoc[layout manager] in effect, row
and column headers may be visible in the header area.

Right-click on component to access the same
xref:context_menu.adoc[context menu] available in the
*xref:component_tree.adoc[Component Tree]*. Components may added by
choosing them from the *xref:palette.adoc[Palette]* and deleted using
the *Delete* key.

== Component Selection

Use the image:images/SelectionTool.gif[image,width=16,height=16]
*Selection* tool in the *xref:palette.adoc[Palette]* to select one or
more widgets. Hold the *Shift* or *Ctrl* key down to select multiple
widgets.

image:images/single_selection.png[image]

Use the image:images/MarqueeSelectionTool.gif[image,width=16,height=16]
*Marquee* tool in the *xref:palette.adoc[Palette]* to rubber band select
multiple widgets. Hold the *Alt* key and start dragging to automatically
activate the  *Marquee* tool.

image:images/marquee_select.png[image]

[#DirectEdit]
== Direct Edit

There is a quick way to edit the text property of buttons (including
check and radio buttons), labels, text fields, groups, and table
columns. First select a component in the **Design View**, and then hit
the *Space* key to reveal an edit box in which you can set the
component's text property.

image:images/direct_edit.png[image,width=230,height=147]

== Moving Components

Whenever a component is moved in the *Design View*, drag feedback is
provided that is layout manager specific. In an x,y oriented layout like
absolute layout, the live component is shown moving with a tooltip
showing its current location. Dynamic snap / alignment points are
provided to make it convenient to align the component with other
components or the window margin.

image:images/feedback_drag_xy.png[image,width=229,height=124]

In grid oriented layouts different feedback is shown depending on which
cell the cursor is over. If the cursor is positioned over an open cell,
the cell is highlighted in green and the cursor shows a green check
mark. If the cursor is positioned over a row or column border, the row
or column border is highlighted in yellow indicating that a new row or
column will be inserted. If the cursor is positioned over an already
populated cell, that cell is highlighted in red and the cursor shows a
red minus sign.

image:images/feedback_drag_grid1.png[image,width=229,height=124] 
image:images/feedback_drag_grid2.png[image,width=229,height=124] 
image:images/feedback_drag_grid3.png[image,width=229,height=124]

== Resizing Components

Whenever a component is resized in the *Design View*, size feedback is
provided that is layout manager specific. In an x,y oriented layout like
absolute layout, an outline of the new size is shown with a tooltip
showing its current size. Dynamic snap / alignment points are provided
to make it convenient to align the component with other components or
the window margin. Resizing a component also snaps to the preferred size
of the resized component or to the size (vertical or horizontal) of any
other component on the same parent.

image:images/feedback_size_xy.png[image,width=229,height=124]

In grid oriented layouts, resizing a component will cause it to span
more than one rows or columns. During the resize operation, the cells
that will be occupied by the component are outlined in green.

image:images/feedback_size_grid.png[image,width=229,height=124]