ifdef::env-github[]
:imagesdir: ../../html/features/
endif::[]

= Event Handling

Events occur when the user interacts with the UI. The appropriate
event-handling code is then executed. In order to know when events
occur, event handlers must first be added to your components. The tool
makes it very easy to add and remove event listeners to your components.

image:../userinterface/images/property_pane_events.png[image]

== Adding an Event Handler

There are two ways to add an event handler with the the editor. The
first way is through the
*xref:../userinterface/property_pane.adoc[Property Pane]*. First select
a component in either the
*xref:../userinterface/component_tree.adoc[Component Tree]* or the
*xref:../userinterface/design_view.adoc[Design View]*. Click the *Show
Events*
image:../userinterface/images/events.png[image]
button to reveal the events list in the
*xref:../userinterface/property_pane.adoc[Property Pane]*. Expand an
event and double-click or press *Enter* on the event handler you wish to
implement.

The second way to add an event handler is to simply
xref:../userinterface/context_menu.adoc[right-click] on a component
(either in the *xref:../userinterface/design_view.adoc[Design View]* or
in the *xref:../userinterface/component_tree.adoc[Component Tree]*),
select *Add event handler > [name of the event] > [name of the event
handler to implement]*.

image:images/add_event_handler_menu.png[image]

A quick way to add event listeners to buttons (including check and radio
buttons) and menu items is to simply double-click on the button or menu
item. When double-clicked, a selection event listener will be created.

Any way you add an event, the tool will automatically create an event
handler for the selected event method. The editor will then switch to
the *xref:../userinterface/source_view.adoc[Source View]* and go
directly to the new event handler method. The code generated looks like
the following:

[source,java]
----
browseButton = new Button(shell, SWT.NONE);
browseButton.addSelectionListener(new SelectionListener() {
  public* void widgetDefaultSelected(SelectionEvent arg0) {
  }

  public void widgetSelected(SelectionEvent arg0) {
  }
});

browseButton.setText("Browse...");
----

There are two ways to quickly return to the event-handling code from the
*xref:../userinterface/design_view.adoc[Design View]*. In the
*xref:../userinterface/property_pane.adoc[Property Pane]*, click the
*Show Events*
image:../userinterface/images/events.png[image]
button and expand the event. Then double-click or press *Enter* on the
event method to return to the code. The events' list in the
*xref:../userinterface/property_pane.adoc[Property Pane]* is a list of
all the events implemented, and each individual event's property value
is the list of methods implemented. If a method has been implemented,
its property value is the line number in the source code where its
event-handling code begins.

The other way to quickly return to the event-handling code is to
right-click on a component (either in the
*xref:../userinterface/design_view.adoc[Design View]* or in the
*xref:../userinterface/component_tree.adoc[Component Tree]*), and then
select the menu item for the correct method that was implemented. Shown
to the right is "*actionPerformed -> line 111*" being selected. In this
example, "actionPerformed" is the event method, and "111" is the line
number in the source code on which the method begins.

Note: the tool is also able to generate an event handler stub method
when a new event is created by setting the appropriate code generation
preferences.

image:images/event_line_number_menu.png[image]

== Deleting an Event Handler

There is only one way to delete an existing event handler in the editor.
Select a component in either the
*xref:../userinterface/design_view.adoc[Design View]* or in the
*xref:../userinterface/component_tree.adoc[Component Tree]*. In the
*xref:../userinterface/property_pane.adoc[Property Pane]* expand expand
the event, click on the event method you wish to delete and then press
*Delete*. If there are no other methods that have been implemented for
that event, the tool will also delete the event listener for that event.
